# History of AI 

## Classical AI  
- During 1950s, the majority of all AI systems focused on manipulating symbols to replicate abstract thinking. 
- This involved performing computer operations on abstract symbols like words, numbers and mathematical operators 
- Many experts beleived that human intelligence could be fully replicated in a computer this way. 
- AI research at this time largely involved playing simple games like checkers and solving toy problems in highly constrained environments . 
- This approach is called classical AI , symbolic AI or simply good old-fashioned AI. 


- The first two eras (The first AI winter i.e, classical ai and The second AI winter i.e, Knowledge-based AI) were based on the assumption that intelligence could be hard coded into computers. 

- But the third era is based on the realization that knowledge can instead be learned from data . We refer to this type of artificial intelligence as **data-driven AI or simple machine learning**

- There were several advances that got us out of the second AI winter and into the third AI boom 
- First we now have much powerful computers. so more compute power
- A desktop computer today is literally hundreds of millions of times more powerful than the best computers in the early 1950s
- Second, we now have lots of more data. A tremendous amount of low-cost readlily available digital information now exists to train AI models usings machine learning. 
- Third , we now have better algorithms for teaching machines with data. 
- Modern machine learning algorithms are easier to train , can learn more complex patterns and can generalize better to new scenarios. 
- Finally, there's been a shift to a much more disciplined apprach to AI. 

## Limitations of this data-driven AI 
- First , while data-driven AI has become really good at pattern detection, it still has limited reasoning copabilites. 
- Reasoning about information and creating plans to achieve goals is still often a challenge for modern AI. 
- Second, data-driven AI relies on large amounts of labeled training data. There is significant cost to collect, prepare, and label these datasets for training, 
- Third, data-driven AI only learns what you teach it. As a result , bad data produces bad results . 
- Biased data produces biased results