# Modern AI 

## Machine Learning 

- How do we teach machines without having to explicity program them ?
- We teach them with data, a process called machine learning. 
- Machine learning is a sub-field of artificial intelligence based on statistics.
- It involes a machine, learning how to solve a problem without being explicitly programmed to do so . 
- The machines are able to do this by detecting statistical patterns in data. 
- Essentially , with machine learning, we use existing data and a training algorithm to learn a model of the data. 
- We can then feed new data into that model that it's never seen before and make predictions about the new data. 
- A machine learning model is essentially a function , It's simply a mapping from an input to an output .
- In this case , it takes a data as an input and produces a prediction as an output . 
- For eg, imagine we have a conveyor belt of fruit of different sizes , we need to separate the apples from the bananas as they go by. However, we only have sensor readings of each fruit's length and height . How would we build a model to predict which fruit is an apple and which fruit is a banana ? 
- First we would need to create a table of data called a training set. This dataset contains the lengths and heights of a bunch of randomly selected apples and bananas. 
- When recording this data, a human would label each type of fruit in each row as either an apple or banana based on visual inspection. 
- Next we would feed these data into a machine learning training algorithm . The algorithm would inspect each row of data containing the length ,  height and type of fruit. 
- The algorithm would learn how length and height correlate with each type of fruit. Apples are more round , and bananas are more elongated. 
- The machine learning training algorithm captures the statistical relationship as a mathemtical model . 
- Now we can use this data to make predictions. We can feed this model a new apple and banana that it's never seen before. And the model will tell us whether the new fruit is an apple or a banana. 
- More precisely, it will tell us a statistical likelihood that the new fruit is either an apple or a banana . 


---
- There are lot of tasks that we can perform with machine learning. 
- For eg, classification , regression , clustering and anomaly detection .
- **Classification** is where we make a decision or prediction involving two or more categories or outcomes. For eg, deciding whether to accept or reject a loan based on a customer's financial history. 
- **Regression** is where we attempt to predict a numeric outcome based on one or more input variables. For eg, predicting the price of a house based on its features and the sale price of similar houses. 
- **Clustering** is where we group objects together based on similarities in their data. For eg, grouping customers into marketing segments based on their demographics.
- **Anomaly Detection** is where we find observations in the data that are different from the normal data. For eg, detecting an unusual spike in the number of negative comments about a new product that we've just released. 

---

- Machine Learning is the artificial intelligence that gives machines the power to identify patterns, make decisions and predict outcomes using data alone. 

- However it takes quite a bit of knowledge and practice to learn how to create good, reliable machine learning models. In addition , traditional machine learning has some serious limitations in terms of complexity of problems that it can solve. To overcome these limitations , we need to learn about more advanced tools like deep learning and reinforcement learning. 

---

# Deep Learning 

- Deep learning is a new type of data-driven AI . 
- It stacks multiple layers of machine learning models , one on top of the other. 
- This allows it to learn more complex inputs and produce more complex outputs. 
- We typically create deep learning models using a **neural network**.
- A **Neural Network** is a graph of nodes and edges based roughly on  the organization of neurons in an organic brain. 
- The nodes represent neurons in the brain and the edges represent the connections between the neurons.
- First, we feed data into the neural network via its input neurons.
- Next, mathematical operations are performed on the data in each of the neurons.
- Then each neuron forwards its resulting value to all of the  other neurons that it's connected to . 
- We repeat this process for all of the nodes in the hidden layer of the network as well as all the edges in the hidden layer.  
- Finally, the network produces a prediction from its output neurons.
- There is a bit of math involved to make this entire process work

- A **deep neural network** is a neural network with more than one hidden layer.
- Adding more hidden layers allows the network to model progressively more complex functions. 
- For eg, imagine we wanted to teach a deep neural network how to detect human faces. First, we'd feed a set of labeled images into the input layer of this network. We do this to teach the network the faces of each person and their corresponding name. The first layer of the neural network would learn to detect geometric primitives, for example, horizontal , vertical , and diagonal lines. The second hidden layer would learn to detect more complex facial features , for example, eyes,noses and mouths. The third hidden layer would learn to detect the general pattern for entire faces. The output layer would detect the most abstract representation of a person. In this case , the name of the person being recognized.
- Each layer learns to extract more complex features from the preceding layer. 
- As a result , the data becomes more abstract with each additional layer in the network . 
- However  , we can also flip these deep neural networks around. This allows us to use abstract inputs, like a description of a person's facial features, 
- In order to synthetically generate complex outputs like entire human faces, this is technique used in generative adversarial networks , the technology behind deep fakes. 
- Deep Learning takes us beyond using simple tabular data as input , and producing simple predictions as output . 
- With deep learning , we can use complex data as input and produce complex data as output . This includes text,images, audio , video and more. 
- For eg, we can perform object classification, video segmentation, and motion detection in real time, but we can also generate synthetic output as well. 
- Watch as this deep neural network generates images of imaginary celebrities. - All of these images are being created by an artificial celebrity genrator trained on 2000000 images of real celebrities.   

```
Deep learning allows us to perform machine learning , on a much wider ray of data types. This can be a quite powerful tool for automating tasks that involve complex relationships between complex data. 

However , it still have significant limitations when it comes to solving multi-step problems. To solve these types of problems , we need to learn about reinforcement learning. 
```


---

# Reinforcement Learning 

- Reinforcement learning is a type of machine learning that learns to solve problem by trial and error.  
- It starts with an agent interacting with an environment . 
- The agent is trying to achieve a multi-step goal within the environment. 
- For eg, a self-driving car might be trying to drive on the roads in the real world. 
- Its goal is to get you from your home to your office while avoiding obstacles in its path. 
- The environment has state , which the agent can observe. For eg, the state includes car's location, the conditions of the road, and the location of other vehicles.
- The agent senses a state of the environment through what it sees, hears , feels or senses via other means. 
- The agent has actions that it can take, which modify the state of the environment. For eg, an agent can drive forward, drive backward, turn left or turn right. All of these actions change the car's position on the road within the environment. 
- In addition , these actions can affect other vehicles and obstacles if they collide. 
- Finally, the agent receives reward signals as it moves closer to its goal. 
- The agent uses these reward signals to determine which actions were successful and which actions were not .
- For eg, we might give the agent a point for each unit of distance it drives you closer to your destination. We might subtract points for breaking traffic laws, going off course or colliding with obstacles. We repeat this state action and reward loop over and over until the agent learns by trial and error how to operate effectively within the environment. 
- The objective for the agent is to learn how to always choose the right action given any state of the environment that leads it closer to its goal. 


- In recent years , we have combined deep learning with reinforcement learning to create **Deep Reinforcement Learning** 
- Today most successful applications of reinforcement learning involve video games, computer simulations and toy problems. 

- Hence , Reinforcement learning is artificial intelligence that can solve complex , multi-step problems on its own . The machines are able to learn how to solve these problems without the direct help of humans. 

---

# Data -driven AI trends
- Beyond the three main trends Machine Learning, Deep learning , Reinforcement Learning , there are several other industry trends helping fuel the AI revolution . 

- It includes **Data Sciene** laying the foundation for data-driven AI with new tools, techniques and datasets. 
- The **Internet of Things** providing a massive stream of real-time data to allow AI to sense the world around it. 
- **Big Data** technologies , providing computing infrastructure for training AI with datasets beyond the limitations of traditional computing architecture. 
- **Computer Simulations** , providing virtual training environments for reinforcement learning agents to learn safely by trial and error . 
- **Video Games** , advances the state of the art by developing non-player character AIs and using games as virtual AI training environments. 
- **Graphic Hardware** ,providing highly parallel computing devices for training AI models through graphical processing units GPUs and leaading to new computer architectures like neural processing units. 
- **Virtual reality** and augmented reality , allowing humans to train AI via demonstration in virtual environment