- We go to IAM SERVICE, and see region is automatically selected as Global
- Now we are using root user as we can see only the account id on top left corner 
- therefore we create users such as admin user
- so create user , provide user name , provide access to AWS Management Console
- Now in the console password, there are two options Autogenerated password and custom password. If this was the user you made was not me, leave it as Autogenerated password and select user must create a new password at next sign-in , but if it was you , then choose custom password and enter password , and don't select user must create a new password at next sign-in .
- Next we need to add permissions to the user. So we can add directly or we can get started with groups. So lets create a group admin and select policy administratorAccess.
- Now we can add the user into the admin group and click on next
- Now review everthing and there is **Tags** which are optional. Tags are everywhere in AWS. They allow you to give metadata to many of your resources. For example , i could say that the department of user ansh is engineering
- Now user created successfuly , and we can email sign-in instruction or download csv file.

- Now see in the Users , and user groups , we see our user and group. In the user we see we have permission administrative acess to user, but this permission is attached directly , it is attached via Group admin, It means ansh inherited any permissions of the group admin it is in,

- Now in IAM Dashboard, we see we have an accound id (864965618223), and sign-in URL (https://864965618223.signin.aws.amazon.com/console). Now you can customize this sign-in url easily by creating what's called an account alias.
- In this we can give name like aws-ansh-v123 (this should be unique otherwise it will not be created).This alias simplify my signing url (https://aws-ansh-v123.signin.aws.amazon.com/console)
- Now sign in using iam user, you will now not only see account id on top left corner but also the iam user name ansh